                           PROBE AND REDUCE
                       from the Richardson Lab

 Probe and Reduce are developed at the Richardson Laboratory at Duke
 University, USA <http://kinemage.biochem.duke.edu/>. Provided versions
 are compiled by Bernhard Lohkamp. No warranties. More information on 
 the websites <http://kinemage.biochem.duke.edu/software/probe.php>, 
 <http://kinemage.biochem.duke.edu/software/reduce.php> and below.

                             Reduce 

  Reduce is a program for adding hydrogens to a Protein DataBank (PDB) 
molecular structure file. Hydrogens are added in standardized geometry 
with optimization of the orientations of OH, SH, NH3+, Met methyls, Asn 
and Gln sidechain amides, and His rings. Both proteins and nucleic 
acids can be processed. HET groups can also be processed as long as the 
atom connectivity is provided. A slightly modified version of the 
connectivity table published by the PDB is available below. The program 
is described in Word, et al.(1999) "Asparagine and glutamine: using 
hydrogen atom contacts in the choice of sidechain amide orientation" 
J. Mol. Biol. 285, 1735-1747.

                              Probe 

  The program Probe allows one to evaluate atomic packing, either within 
or between molecules. It generates "contact dots" where atoms are in 
close contact. Probe reads atomic coordinates from protein databank 
(PDB) format files and writes dot-lists for inclusion in a kinemage 
file. Alternatively, the packing information can be quantified and 
displayed in a table listing scores for van der Waals interactions, 
H-bonds and atomic overlaps ("clashes"). Essentially the inverse of the 
Connolly algorithm, the approach is to place a very small probe 
(typically of radius 0.25A) at points along the van der Waals surface 
of a selected set of atoms and determine if this probe also contacts 
atoms within a second "target" set. Probe provides a flexible method 
for selecting the source and target atoms along with command line flags 
for altering the probe radius and dot density. In addition, Probe can 
generate contact surfaces within a set of atoms ("self dots") and even 
"surface dots" where there are no nearby atoms. For a detailed 
description see Word, et al. (1999), "Visualizing and Quantifying 
Molecular Goodness-of-Fit: Small-probe Contact Dots with Explicit 
Hydrogen Atoms" J. Mol. Biol. 285, 1709-1731.

